This repository provides two Julia files for Gated Residual Variable Selection Neural Networks. GRVSNNClass.jl performs classification of a target (output) variable that can contain either binary or multi-class labels. The target should be provided in the first column and the rest of the tabular features in the consecutive columns. The code automatically detects if it is a binary or multi-class target, and if it is continuous or discrete input features and normalize or one-hot encode these. There are some packages that need to be installed and some parameters that should be set in the beginning of the code. GRVSNNReg.jl performs multi-task regression and the only difference to GRVSNNClass.jl is that the target (output) variable(s) should be in the first column(s) and the number of targets should be given at the appropriate place in the beginning of the code. You also need to specify if you want to use a CPU or GPU device (the GPU option may not work on all GPU architechtures). Hyperparameters are tuned with Bayesian Optimization for each CV-fold (which are divided into train and validation parts automatically). The code provides summary statistics of model fit as well as two measures of variable importance. The last section contains code where you can provide a file with test data for ensemble prediction. This file should not have any target columns.
The code is an extension of the paper: Fan, Y. and Waldmann, P. (2025). Multi-task genomic prediction using gated residual variable selection neural networks. BMC Bioinformatics 26: 167.
